════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
DRAGONBANE ADVENTURES — CHAPTER 4: JOURNEYS
(Random Encounter Tables for the Misty Vale)
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

Between adventures, the player characters will travel all over the Misty Vale.
They might return to Outskirt to lick their wounds, or head straight to the next
adventure. Use the travel rules in chapter 8 of the Rulebook.

The map of the Misty Vale is not exact, so you may have to estimate distances and
how long the journey will take.

ADVENTURE SITES: The adventure sites in this book are marked on the GM map.
With the help of rumors and the adventure cards, players should be able to locate
the sites on the large map. Do not make them difficult to find.

RANDOM ENCOUNTERS: Once per shift, or whenever it seems appropriate, roll on the
relevant table for the region being traversed. You can also select a suitable
encounter instead of rolling randomly.


════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
TABLE 1: RANDOM ENCOUNTERS AROUND OUTSKIRT (D12)
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

1–6  Nothing Happens. The journey through grain fields and rolling hills is
     uneventful.

7    Merchant. The characters encounter a good-natured halfling merchant named
     Theobald. On his donkey-drawn cart he has most Common items listed in chapter 6
     of the Rulebook, and even a few Uncommon ones. He can also share a rumor about
     an adventure site and would like to hear news from the characters.

8    Farmers. Farmer Oda and her grown son Medvin are on their way to Outskirt to
     sell their wares and would like to share camp with the characters. However,
     Medvin has recently been recruited to the Sathmog cult by Leanara and asks lots
     of questions about the characters' plans. He reports everything they say to
     Leanara. They can run into Medvin a second time, for example during the
     confrontation at the crypt of Um-Durman.

9    Bandits. A band of unwashed thugs jumps out at a bend in the road, weapons
     drawn. The leader is a rat-like man with a greasy smile: "Hand over your
     valuables, or your lives and adventures end right here." The bandits outnumber
     the characters by one and have stats as typical bandits on page 105 in the
     Rulebook. They flee if half of them are defeated.

10   Adventurers. Three banged-up adventurers on their way home from the same
     adventure site the characters are headed to — a human thief, a wolfkin warrior,
     and a mallard wizard, all with stats as typical adventurers on page 105 in the
     Rulebook. They have taken a brutal beating and warn the characters to turn back.
     They can provide details about the site if they get something in return.

11   Dead Cultists. Three dead humans are hanging from a tree by the roadside, all
     wearing black robes. A closer look reveals sword wounds on their bodies. They
     bear the mark of Sathmog on their forearms — the characters notice this if they
     actively look or succeed with a SPOT HIDDEN roll. These poor souls are Sathmog
     cultists slain by the Eledain knight Tylos as a warning.

12   Ruin. A short distance from the road is a ruin from the age of the dragon
     empire. Only wall segments remain of what was once an impressive fortress.
     Reliefs on the walls show a figure in a horned dragon helmet. If the characters
     spend one shift investigating the ruin, they find the entrance to a secret
     cellar. Down there is a chest — draw two treasure cards to see what it contains.


════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
TABLE 2: RANDOM ENCOUNTERS IN THE MAGNA WOODS (D12)
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

1–6  Nothing Happens. The walk across gnarled roots and peculiar mushrooms is
     uneventful.

7    Flying Creature. A dreadful noise is heard from above and the characters are
     struck by a bizarre sight: a cow is flying backwards over the treetops with
     anguished moos. On its back sits a horned creature pulling the poor animal's
     tail while screeching triumphantly. With a successful MYTHS & LEGENDS roll,
     the characters recall stories of demonic beings traveling between worlds on
     bewitched cattle. The creature is a lesser servant demon who has seeped into
     the world through the Temple of the Purple Flame.

8    Ancient Milestone. A low obelisk of weathered granite can be seen through the
     trees, partially covered in moss and undergrowth, but with a pointy crown —
     possibly horned — carved into the stone at the top. Characters who examine it
     and succeed with a SPOT HIDDEN roll find a secret compartment that holds a
     beautiful gold ring with a stylized crown. The ring contains a MAGIC SEAL with
     the LIGHT magic trick, triggered by the phrase "Eledain, lord of the world,
     give us light!"

9    Harpies. The characters hear voices shrieking "Giiive meee", "Nooo, giiiive
     meeee", "Noooo, I waaant the liiittle oneees." Suddenly three harpies (page 92
     in the Rulebook) swoop down and attack them, primarily targeting the character
     who carries the most metal. If two harpies are defeated, the last one escapes
     but may come back later with more of its kind.

10   A Cry For Help. The characters hear high-pitched cries for help echoing through
     the tree trunks. Following the sounds, they find a group of robed figures armed
     with scimitars, carrying a squealing goblin chained to a thick log. The figures
     are Sathmog cultists on their way to the Temple of the Purple Flame, where they
     intend to throw the poor goblin into the demon portal to see how the demonic
     world affects living matter. They are as many as the player characters and have
     stats as per page 105 of the Rulebook.

11   Haunted Glade. The characters wander into a haunted glade and are surrounded
     by an unnatural darkness. Suddenly a shimmering blue woman with empty eye sockets
     materializes. The ghost (page 87 in the Rulebook) attacks without mercy but can
     be appeased with a successful PERSUASION roll. In that case the ghost says it
     "fell by a murderer's blade" a long time ago, but that its remains lie scattered
     in this glade. A successful SPOT HIDDEN roll finds the bones. Burying its remains
     brings peace to the ghost, and you can reward the characters by having it recount
     a legend about the Misty Vale.

12   Undead Guard Patrol. The path is blocked by skeletons — as many as the
     characters — in antiquated armor. The crumbling ruin of a small watchtower can
     be seen through the trees. If the characters draw closer, the captain shouts at
     them in an archaic dialect. A successful LANGUAGES roll interprets the words as
     "toll" and "death to the rebels." If the characters pay a toll of one gold coin,
     or convince the skeletons that they too hate "the rebels" (PERSUASION roll), they
     are allowed to pass. Otherwise, they must fight. All skeletons have stats as
     warriors on page 96 in the Rulebook but are equipped with short spears and
     chainmail.


════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
TABLE 3: RANDOM ENCOUNTERS IN THE IRON FOREST (D12)
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

1–6  Nothing Happens. The walk under the dark foliage takes place without incident.

7    Troll Lair. A foul stench suddenly hits the characters, and they see the
     entrance to an underground lair behind some large boulders. Tracks of clawed
     feet lead down into the dark. The lair is full of bone fragments from animals
     and humanoids alike. If the characters search the lair for a stretch of time
     and succeed with a SPOT HIDDEN roll, they may draw two treasure cards. After
     one stretch, the troll (page 97 in the Rulebook) shows up in a rage.

8    Goblin Trap. A group of sly goblins have set a trap in the middle of the path.
     The character must make a SPOT HIDDEN roll. Anyone who fails crashes down into
     a four-meter-deep pitfall and takes damage from the fall. Then the goblins
     attack — they are twice as many as the player characters and have stats as
     Scouts on page 90 in the Core Rulebook. The goblins can be bribed into
     aborting the attack with D12 gold coins and a successful PERSUASION roll.
     The goblins serve orc chieftain Maladûk, which they will admit if asked. They
     can even reveal that Maladûk is currently at Bothild's Lode.

9    The Dragon Knight. The characters hear the sound of rapid hoofbeats
     approaching. Those who succeed with an AWARENESS roll can hide if they want;
     the others are stopped by an armored knight. His name is Tylos, and he is a
     member of the Keepers of the Immaculate Flame (their mark is on his armor).
     Tylos asks where the characters are headed. No matter what they say, they must
     roll PERSUASION for Tylos to believe them — he suspects them of being Sathmog
     cultists on their way to Fort Malus to free a comrade imprisoned there. If the
     roll fails, Tylos attacks unless they say they are working with Alfilia
     Shadowleaf. If they manage to calm him down, Tylos orders them to follow him
     to Fort Malus for "an important quest." If the characters refuse, they must
     PERSUADE him again or be attacked. Tylos has the same stats as Isadelia (see
     Fort Malus adventure) and rides a combat-trained horse.

10   Prowling Manticore. A hungry manticore stalks the characters through the
     trees. Let each character roll AWARENESS with a bane. If everyone fails, the
     manticore's attack counts as surprising, which gives it initiative cards #1
     and #2 in the first round. It runs off after losing half its HP.

11   Hunting Elves. The two elven hunters Aldonil and Orifin lie in ambush (stats
     as hunters on page 105 in the Rulebook). Let the players roll for AWARENESS
     with a bane. Those who fail are caught by surprise — the elves suddenly appear
     by the trail with bows drawn. They seek their friend Iliel, who has been
     abducted by a mounted knight (see encounter #9 and Fort Malus). They suspect
     the characters are involved but can be placated with a PERSUASION roll. If the
     characters help the elves in some concrete way, they will be rewarded with a
     mastercrafted elven weapon each next time they meet. If Iliel has already been
     freed, she is here with the elves and the characters are invited to make camp
     with all three.

12   Chanting Cultists. The characters hear chanting from a gloomy glade. Moving
     closer, they see hooded figures — as many as the characters — with burning
     torches. Characters who succeed with a LANGUAGES roll hear the words "Sathmog,
     our three-tongued master." The cultists have stats as per page 105 of the
     Rulebook. If the ritual is interrupted, they attack and fight to the death.
     If allowed to continue for a stretch, the cultists vanish into black smoke and
     a demon (stats as per page 85 in the Rulebook) materializes and attacks.


════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
TABLE 4: RANDOM ENCOUNTERS IN THE HAUNTED MARSHES (D12)
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

1–6  Nothing Happens. The player characters slosh tirelessly through the stinking
     swamp.

7    Leeches. A flooded section of the path is riddled with leeches. Anyone wading
     through the water must roll BUSHCRAFT or take D3 damage and suffer a condition
     of their choice. Armor has no effect.

8    Hunting Trap. A rusty bear trap is hidden under a bunch of old leaves. Let all
     characters make an AWARENESS roll in the order in which they walk. The first
     person to fail triggers the trap and suffers D6 piercing damage.

9    Giant Spider. A ravenous giant spider (page 89 in the Rulebook) has spun its
     web across the path. All characters must make an AWARENESS roll — those who
     fail are trapped in the spider's web and the spider attacks next round. Trapped
     characters must roll STR with a bane to break free.

10   Restless Spirits. Luminous shapes of orcs in broken armor are floating across
     the swamp. The characters must make a roll against WIL to resist fear. These
     are the spirits of orcs killed in battle around the Tower of Sighs.

11   The Herbologist. The characters encounter an old herbologist named Elmina who
     lives in a hut in the swamp. She can point them toward the Tower of Sighs and
     warn them of a giant and a band of brigands who dwell there. For a few gold
     coins, Elmina can also offer her services as a healer, or even teach them her
     skills. Elmina has HEALING 16, ANIMISM 15, and knows the spells: Cook Food,
     Clean, Banish, Heal Wound, Ensnaring Roots, and Animal Whisperer.

12   Ghost Lights. The swamp vegetation grows higher and denser. In the darkness
     under the trees, ghost lights illuminate the ground. Each character must make
     a WIL roll not to be lured into the swamp. Those who fail soon get stuck in the
     mud and must make an EVADE roll with a bane not to sink and start drowning.
     Another character can save the victim with a successful ACROBATICS roll, but on
     failure they start sinking as well.


════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
TABLE 5: RANDOM ENCOUNTERS AT THE FOOT OF THE MOUNTAINS (D12)
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

1–6  Nothing Happens. The wind howls across the barren mountain slopes, and the
     arduous march proceeds without delay.

7    The Silhouette of Death. The characters are struck by anxiety and suddenly
     feel small, harmless, and vulnerable. Moments later the world darkens as a
     huge shadow glides across the sky. All characters who look up must roll WIL
     to resist fear. With a successful BEAST LORE roll, the winged shadow — which
     has spiky growths and an extended snout — is identified as a dragon.

8    Nervous Orcs. The characters are surrounded by threatening orcs who show up
     without warning from every direction. They outnumber the characters by two and
     have the stats and gear of warriors on page 95 in the Rulebook. The scowling
     orcs are extremely suspicious, but only want to know what the characters are
     doing in the area. The orcs serve Maladûk and suspect the intruders of being
     Sathmog cultists on the hunt for their chieftain. The risk of combat is high,
     but it can be avoided with a successful PERSUASION roll.

9    Angry Giant. A raging giant (page 88 in the Rulebook) comes charging at the
     characters, roaring furiously as it swings its enormous wooden club. It reaches
     them in two rounds. A successful BEAST LORE roll reveals that giants are
     extremely territorial creatures. The giant aborts its attack if the characters
     hurry away, which takes a successful EVADE roll and wastes their movement this
     shift. Alternatively, a character can make a SNEAKING roll to hide or PERSUADE
     the giant that they are no threat to his cave. Give the characters several
     chances to avoid combat.

10   Mistress of the Winds. The gales of a great storm howl between the mountain
     peaks. Suddenly the characters see a hooded figure on a cliff, gesturing with
     her arms and reaching for the sky. This is Sephyra, an elementalist mage trying
     to conquer the western wind. Sephyra knows the mountains well and is familiar
     with the stories of the dwarf queen Bothild. If the characters gain her trust
     (PERSUASION roll), she can show them the way to Bothild's Lode, or even teach
     them what she knows. She has skill level 15 in ELEMENTALISM and knows the
     spells: Frost, Gust of Wind, and Whirlwind.

11   The Dragon Egg. Beneath a protruding rock is a human-sized stone with red
     streaks. Taking a closer look, the characters realize the strange thing is an
     egg — clearly laid by some giant beast. A character who succeeds with a BEAST
     LORE roll identifies it as a dragon egg, and also remembers hearing that dragon
     eggs have poisonous shells. Anyone who touches it is afflicted by a lethal
     poison with potency 7.

12   Death From Above. A hungry griffon (page 91 in the Rulebook) spots the
     characters from its nest at the top of a huge tree and attacks with a
     blood-curdling shriek. Let each character roll AWARENESS with a bane. If
     everyone fails, the griffon's attack is surprising and the beast gets initiative
     cards #1 and #2 in the first round. The griffon will flee after losing half
     its HP.
